Adding functionality for general queries plus more (#3)
Sage-Bionetworks/porTools: vignettes/query-pubmed-grants.Rmd

---
title: "Query Pubmed by Grant"
author: "Nicole Kauer", "Kelsey Montgomery"
date: "3/24/2020"
output: html_document
---

```{r setup, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
library(dccvalidator)
library(dplyr)
library(easyPubMed)
library(readr)
library(reticulate)
library(porTools)
synapseclient <- reticulate::import("synapseclient")
syntab <- reticulate::import("synapseclient.table")
syn <- synapseclient$Synapse()
syn$login()
```

## Query Pubmed and store data as file annotations

> The data needed for these steps are *Grant Number*, *grantSerialNumber* and *Program*. Theses functions take a list of grant serial numbers and queries the site to pull down title, abstract, authors, journal name, year and DOI. Theses annotations are visible in the [AD Knowledge Portal - Publications View](https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn20448807/tables/). See the [Explore Publications module](https://adknowledgeportal.synapse.org/Explore/Publications) for a visual of how this data is surfaced on the portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data needed for these steps are *Grant Number*, *grantSerialNumber* and *Program*. Theses functions take a list of grant serial numbers and queries Pubmed to download title, abstract, authors, journal name, year and DOI. Theses annotations are visible in the [AD Knowledge Portal - Publications View](https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn20448807/tables/). See the [Explore Publications module](https://adknowledgeportal.synapse.org/Explore/Publications) for a visual of how this data is surfaced on the portal.
```

dat$authors <- hacky_cleaning(dat$authors)
dat$journal <- hacky_cleaning(dat$journal)
dat$abstract <- hacky_cleaning(dat$abstract)
# Remove common, unallowed characters from entity name; includes hacky_cleaning
dat$entity_name <- remove_unacceptable_characters(dat$entity_name)
```

`set_up_multiannotations` parses comma-separated lists to be stored correctly in Synapse as multi-value annotations. Before setting up the multiannotations, add extra columns that are needed for working with the Portal. The additional, redundant columns will be removed in the future. Should keep `grant` and `Program`, and remove `long_amp_ad_grants`, `doi`, and `consortium`.

```{r columns}
# Add columns that need to exist for now
dat["long_amp_ad_grants"] <- dat$grant
dat["doi"] <- dat$DOI
dat["Program"] <- dat$consortium
dat <- set_up_multiannotations(dat, "grant")
dat <- set_up_multiannotations(dat, "Program")
```

The final data is transposed so that it can be iterated over by `purrr` and stored in Synapse under the `parent` folder.

```{r store, message=FALSE, echo=FALSE}
parent = "syn20463015"
dat_list <- purrr::transpose(dat)
store_as_annotations(parent = parent, dat_list)
```

> Query the publications table to force an update.

Reviewer: nice!
